feat/DOCS-5492-Add-Universal-Components-documents (#1226)
auth0/docs-v2: main/docs/get-started/universal-components/android/components/my-account-overview.mdx

---
title: Build a Self-Service Account Security Interface with My Account API on Android
description: "Describes how to use Universal Components to build self-service account security interfaces with Auth0's My Account API on Android."
sidebarTitle: Build Account Security UI
---

import { ReleaseStageNotice } from "/snippets/ReleaseStageNotice.jsx"

<ReleaseStageNotice
    feature="Auth0 Universal Components"
    stage="beta"

>     terms="true"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    terms="true"
    contact="Auth0 Support"
```

## How it works

The `AuthenticatorSettingsComponent` uses the Auth0 My Account API's [authentication methods](/docs/manage-users/my-account-api#manage-authentication-methods) to render an authentication-methods management UI inside your application.

When an authenticated user opens their account settings screen, the [Auth0.Android](https://github.com/auth0/Auth0.Android) SDK retrieves an [access token](/docs/secure/tokens/access-tokens) scoped to the My Account API audience.

The `AuthenticatorSettingsComponent` uses the access token to call the My Account API [`/me/v1/authentication-methods`](/docs/api/myaccount/authentication-methods/get-authentication-methods) endpoints as the logged-in user, so each user can only modify their own authentication methods.

<Callout icon="file-lines" color="#0EA5E9" iconType="regular">
* The `AuthenticatorSettingsComponent` creates **end-user self-service** interfaces. End users can enroll, list, and remove every authentication method on their account: email OTP, SMS OTP, TOTP (authenticator application), push via Auth0 Guardian, passkeys, and recovery codes.

> * For **delegated admin** interfaces where a user manages an Auth0 Organization, read [Build a Delegated Admin Interface](/docs/get-started/universal-components/web/components/build-delegated-admin).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For **delegated admin** interfaces in which a user manages an Auth0 Organization, read [Build a Delegated Admin Interface](/docs/get-started/universal-components/web/components/build-delegated-admin).
```

* For **delegated admin** interfaces in which a user manages an Auth0 Organization, read [Build a Delegated Admin Interface](/docs/get-started/universal-components/web/components/build-delegated-admin).
</Callout>

## Prerequisites

### Enable the My Account API

1. Navigate to [Dashboard > Applications > APIs](https://manage.auth0.com/#/apis).
2. Select **Activate My Account API** to ensure it is enabled for your tenant.

### Create an application and configure My Account API permissions

1. Navigate to [Dashboard > Applications](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications).
2. Select **Create Application**.
3. Select **Native**.
4. Select the **Settings** tab to add the callback URL in the **Allowed Callback URLs**:

    ```text

>     https://YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN/android/YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME/callback

Reviewer 2: https://YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN/ios/YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME/callback, YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME://YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN/ios/YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME/callback

These two URLs need to be added

5. Add your logout URLs in the **Allowed Logout URLs**.
6. Select the **API Access** tab.
7. Select **Edit** for the **Auth0 My Account API** to add the **User-delegated Access** permissions:

>     Request only the permissions your application needs from the My Account API.

Reviewer: Should this line be a standalone?

Author: Good point, I remove it and its accordion as it is already reflected on the Callout below

```kotlin MainActivity.kt
import com.auth0.android.Auth0
import com.auth0.android.authentication.AuthenticationAPIClient
import com.auth0.android.authentication.storage.CredentialsManager
import com.auth0.android.authentication.storage.SharedPreferencesStorage
import com.auth0.universalcomponents.Auth0UniversalComponents
import com.auth0.universalcomponents.token.DefaultTokenProvider

class MainActivity : ComponentActivity() {

    private val account by lazy {
        Auth0.getInstance(
            getString(R.string.com_auth0_client_id),
            getString(R.string.com_auth0_domain)
        )
    }

    private val credentialsManager by lazy {
        CredentialsManager(
            AuthenticationAPIClient(account),
            SharedPreferencesStorage(this)
        )
    }

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)

        Auth0UniversalComponents.initialize(
            context = applicationContext,
            account = account,
            tokenProvider = DefaultTokenProvider(credentialsManager),
            scheme = getString(R.string.com_auth0_scheme)

>         )

Reviewer 3: there is one optional parameter called PassKeyConfiguration also. 
`  public fun initialize(
        context: Context,
        account: Auth0,
        tokenProvider: TokenProvider,
        scheme: String,
        passkeyConfiguration: PasskeyConfiguration = PasskeyConfiguration()
    )`

To initialize the SDK use the `Auth0UniversalComponents.initialize(...)` method once at the application start, typically from your application subclass or from `onCreate` in the launcher `Activity`.

    ```kotlin MainActivity.kt theme={null}
    import com.auth0.android.Auth0
    import com.auth0.android.authentication.AuthenticationAPIClient
    import com.auth0.android.authentication.storage.CredentialsManager
    import com.auth0.android.authentication.storage.SharedPreferencesStorage
    import com.auth0.universalcomponents.Auth0UniversalComponents
    import com.auth0.universalcomponents.token.DefaultTokenProvider

    class MainActivity : ComponentActivity() {

        private val account by lazy {
            Auth0.getInstance(
                getString(R.string.com_auth0_client_id),
                getString(R.string.com_auth0_domain)
            )
        }

        private val credentialsManager by lazy {
            CredentialsManager(
                AuthenticationAPIClient(account),
                SharedPreferencesStorage(this)
            )
        }

        override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
            super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)

>             Auth0UniversalComponents.initialize(

Reviewer 4: we need to pass a new paramter `context` here 
```

Auth0UniversalComponents.initialize(
    context = context,
    account = account,
    tokenProvider = DefaultTokenProvider(credentialsManager),
    scheme = getString(R.string.com_auth0_scheme)
)
```

      ```kotlin theme={null}
      class AppTokenProvider : TokenProvider {
          override suspend fun fetchCredentials(): Credentials {
              // Return the user's login credentials.
          }
          override suspend fun fetchApiCredentials(
              audience: String,
              scope: String?
          ): APICredentials {
              // Return cached My Account API credentials, refreshing if expired.
          }
          override suspend fun saveApiCredentials(
              audience: String,
              credentials: APICredentials
          ) {
              // Persist the freshly issued API credentials.
          }
      }
      ```
</Accordion>

### Configure passkeys (optional)
Use the `PasskeyConfiguration` to customize how the SDK enrolls passkeys through the AndroidX Credential Manager.

    ```kotlin theme={null}
    import androidx.credentials.CredentialManager
    import com.auth0.universalcomponents.PasskeyConfiguration

    val passkeyConfiguration = PasskeyConfiguration(
        credentialManager = CredentialManager.create(this),
        connection = "Username-Password-Authentication",
        userIdentity = "auth0|abc123"
    )

>     Auth0UniversalComponents.initialize(

Reviewer 4: Use the updated API 
```
Auth0UniversalComponents.initialize(
    context = context,
    account = account,
    tokenProvider = DefaultTokenProvider(credentialsManager),
    scheme = getString(R.string.com_auth0_scheme),
    passkeyConfiguration = passkeyConfiguration
)

```

| **Auth Methods Management** — `AuthenticatorSettingsComponent`. Enrolls, lists, and removes every authentication method on the user's account: Email OTP, SMS OTP, TOTP (Authenticator app), Push via Auth0 Guardian, Passkeys, and Recovery Codes.                            | `/me/v1/authentication-methods` |

## Configure My Account Components using the Auth0 Dashboard

To use My Account components, you need to configure your Auth0 tenant with the proper [APIs](/docs/api/myaccount), [applications](/docs/get-started/applications), and [scopes](/docs/get-started/applications/application-access-to-apis-client-grants).

### Enable the My Account API

1. Navigate to [Dashboard > Applications > APIs](https://manage.auth0.com/#/apis).
2. Select **Activate My Account API** to and ensure it is enabled for your tenant.

### Create an Application and configure My Account API scopes

1. Navigate to [Dashboard > Applications](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications).
2. Select **Create Application**.
3. Select **Native**.

> 4. In the **Settings** tab, add the callback URL in the **Allowed Callback URLs**: `https://YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN://YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME/android/YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME/callback`.

Reviewer 5: Correct the callback URL

Reviewer 3: It should be something In this format : 
`https://<YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN>/android/<YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME>/callback`

5. Add your logout URLs in the **Allowed Logout URLs**.
6. Select the **API Access Tab**.
7. Select **Edit** for the **Auth0 My Account API** to select the User delegated Access permissions:

### Configure scopes

Request the scopes your app needs from the My Account API when obtaining the user's access token.

<Accordion title="Required scopes">
  ```
  create:me:authentication_methods
  read:me:authentication_methods
  update:me:authentication_methods
  delete:me:authentication_methods
  ```
</Accordion>

<Callout icon="file-lines" color="#0EA5E9" iconType="regular">
The user's token only includes permissions they were granted during login. Request all four scopes if you want users to enroll, review, and remove authentication methods.
</Callout>

> ### Configure passkeys (optional)

Reviewer 5: Move this redundant section to the passkey's doc and link to it here instead.
